Now, I highly recommend top task
analysis if you could get to do it,
but I'm gonna make the presumption
that maybe you aren't
going to have the opportunity
to do it that thoroughly.
So what I'd like to do is introduce you to
what I've called top task analysis lite,
right?
[LAUGH] Which is where I've gone through
and I've kind of hacked it around a bit.
Probably Jerry would freak out if he saw
what I've done to his lovely technique.
And try and make it a little
bit faster to turn around.
It's still not the fastest and
easiest thing to do, but I think now
we're in a position where the return on
investment of putting that effort in.
In terms of cutting dead debate and
arguments and politics and
all the rest of it, means that in
many cases it is worthwhile doing.
And obviously, on smaller sites, it's
easier to do anyway because there's not as
many tasks, there's not as many questions.
So, here are my steps and
what I recommend you do on each step in
order to establish your list of top tasks.
Starts off the same, right?
Start off by gathering a list
of potential tasks, right?
Everything that people might wanna know or
might wanna do on your website or
your app.
And there's a whole lot of
places you can look, and
we've kind of touched on these already
in some of the earlier stuff where
I was talking about looking
at existing material.
You can look at existing user research,
testing, customer-facing stuff,
analytics, etc, right?
So you look at all these sources, and then
what you do is you write a big-ass list
of everything that you think someone
might want to do on the website.
Now, that's quite our work, right?
That bit takes a little while to do.
So, if you're really need to cut things
back to the point where you're on the edge
of being pretty dodgy in terms of quality
of data, but let's go with it, right?
If you really need to cut back, your
other option is to ask ChatGPT, right?
It's remarkably good at
brainstorming this stuff, right?
So, and you can kind of get away with
skipping this stage, because later
on we're gonna give users the option
to add in anything we've missed, right?
So our list doesn't need to be perfect.
It just needs to be a starting point,
right?
So yeah, it's great to base it on a load
of research and that kind of stuff
to get our initial list, but it's not
the end of the world if we don't, right?
We just need something to
start people off with.
So, yeah, I'll just do a prompt like this.
Somebody considering signing up for front
end masters or whatever the thing is,
what tasks or questions you might
have when visiting the website?
Write these as a list that we could
use as part of the top task analysis.
Sure enough, it'll come up with a load of
perfectly reasonable sounding questions.
Some of them you'll look through and
go, well, that's a bit rubbish.
And so you'll get rid of it.
It might inspire you to adds some others
install it yourself, but it's actually
not a bad way of starting if you're
really are strapped for time, right?
So we've got pretty,
let's say poor quality initial list, but
it is a starting point.
So the next step in the equation
is to create a survey, but
it's a particular type of
survey we're gonna create.
Well, what we're gonna do, is we're
going to use a tool called poll unit.
Now, there are other tools available, but
that happens to be the one that I use.
And poll unit, allows you to create a list
of options that people can either vote on,
right?
Vote up, or they can add their
own additional options on it.
So all we're doing is pre populating
it with some initial ideas, but
people could always suggest their own and
then other people can come in and vote for
those things.
Does that make sense?
Am I making sense there, right?
Kind of, yeah, okay?
So hopefully I'll be able to show
you it and make a bit more sense.
So, what we're gonna do is, we're gonna
create a new survey on pole unit and
then we're gonna populate that
survey with some initial tasks.
So you can see on the right
hand side of the screen there.
This is one I created and
is running at the moment.
What information do you need
from the network rail website?
That's the question that we're asking.
And then I pre-filled it with a load
of ideas that ChatGPT came out with,
and my use of research came up with,
just to get people thinking.
So sustainability information,
information for the media,
what it's like working for Network Rail.
Getting involved in community rail and
various other things, right?
So I just dumped a load of ideas in there.
Doesn't need to be comprehensive,
because remember, if someone find
something that isn't in the list,
then they can add it themselves, right?
So, then what we're gonna do is
we're gonna ask users, we're gonna
send this out to users and we're gonna
say, have a look through that list, right?
If you find the thing that you want to
know, or the thing that you care about,
click the heart and it'll vote for it.
She will vote and
that will be your yes I want that.
If you find it's not there,
you can click the big add idea button and
put in your own idea and
then other people can vote on that, right?
So, it's basically like, you get those
vote for a feature on an app sometimes, so
you can suggest a feature and
the very top down, it's exactly the same.
So you'd leave that running for
a while, you send it out to some users,
or use a tool like askable to recruit
users to complete it if you need to.
You send that out and
you'll get back a load of results, right?
Wonderful, so now we've got a load of
results of people that have voted for
and suggested various things.
And our job then, is very simple.
We just got to clean up the results a bit,
because it will be a bit messy, right?
What you'll do is you'll have,
for example, duplicates.
There'll be somebody who has said I
want us to go back to the University
of Florida example from earlier, somebody
might have put it in as health care.
And somebody might have put health care
packages, or health care plans, and
it's all health care basically.
So you're gonna kind of
group those ones together.
And then probably you're gonna simplify
the wording a little bit as well,
because sometimes they put in long things
like I want to know about healthcare
packages where you just need
it to sell healthcare, right?
Yeah, so it's doing a bit of a tidy up.
Now, depending on how popular this has
been, that can be quite a lot of work.
Going through and
tidying up those results.
So once again, let's get ChatGPT to
do some of the hard work for us.
ChatGPT turns out to be a really useful
tool for user research and testing,
so I will be leveraging it a bit.
So in this particular case,
what I basically say,
I'm gonna give you a prompt, right?
You'll get the slides, so
you can see this yourself later.
I want you to act as a data analyst.
The attach file is the results
of a top task analysis.
So basically I've downloaded
the results off of pol unit,
opened them up and I've narrowed
it down to two colons, right?
It's got a load of other junk in there.
I delete all the other junk and
it ends up being two columns, ideas, which
are the ideas that have been submitted or
I've added to the list and votes.
So the ideas columns
contain suggestions for
tasks users might want to complete
in this case on an HR website.
And the votes columns is the number of
times the user has voted for the task.
Please complete the following
steps in order.
This is important, the wording of this
because I've done this many times and
Chat GPT needs to be told
very specifically what to do,
otherwise it gets upset.
First of all, simplify each
entry into the ideas column to
less than three words while
attempting to maintain meaning.
So that's where it gets rid of health
care packages and just puts healthcare.
Step two, identify any ideas
that conceptually similar.
So healthcare and
dental care, for example.
You could argue those
are conceptually similar.
Combined similar ideas into a single
row with a clear and concise name.
Also add together the votes for
any idea that has been combined.
So it'll add dental care and
healthcare together into a single
thing combining the votes.
Output the new list of tasks with
the associated combined votes as
a new CSV file with the same columns.
The goal is to end up with a simple
simplified list of less than 70 ideas with
the associated votes, right?
So we don't want hundreds and hundreds of
ideas, otherwise it's gonna be too big for
what we're gonna do next, right?
But about 70.
So what you will see when
you've done that exercise is
basically a list of 70 ideas and
the, the number of votes
will be very much stacked towards
about a third of that list.
It'll be like, imagine a curve
where most of the votes and
then it tails off to this
long kind of tail, yeah.
>> I'm missing one little part here.
>> Only one?
It's quite a complicated
thing to explain to you-
>> So you've taken all your data,
you've put it into chat GTP first and
then you put this-
>> Yes, so basically-
>> How do you do that and
sequentially in Chat GPT?
>> So, in chat GPT,
you need the pro account events,
you need to pay a bit money, right?
But you only need to do it for one month.
And then it'll give you a little paper
clip next to the search text box.
It gives you where you can upload a file,
right?
So it knows the file is attached,
does that make sense?
>> I didn't know that part about it.
>> Yeah, well, if you haven't used
the pro account, you wouldn't know.
I think Claude,
which basically is ChatGPT, very similar.
I think that lets you upload a file on the
free account, in which case, use Claude.
It doesn't really matter, any large
language model will do the trick, right?
So the great thing is that's gonna
now churn out this list of tasks, and
you're gonna be able to see very clearly
what the top ones are bonus, right?
So immediately you now know what it is
that the website's got to be built around,
right?
Yay, anyway,
what you'll end up with is a list that
looks something like this, right?
So the top third of the list
are gonna be your top tasks.
Notice how it's slowly tailing off and
it goes down further until nothing.
So most of the top third
of your votes are gonna be,
really stacked towards a certain
number of tasks at the top.
And those are your top tasks.
Now, that might be enough for you, right?
If time is tight, money's tight,
you might go, great, I know the top tasks.
Now let me create an information
architecture around it, right?
However, if you think there's
gonna be a lot of arguments
about the information architecture,
if you want to do something that's
a little bit more user-orientated.
We can actually use those top tasks to
define our top-level navigation, right?
And this is where it gets really,
really quite powerful, and
you end up with an information
architecture that is rock-solid.
A, it'll work well for users, and B,
it'll be really difficult for
anybody to argue against.
Not that I'm obsessed with
shutting stakeholders up, but
sometimes it's needed, right?
So we're gonna use top tasks to
establish our top level navigation.
So why focus on the top task?
Well, it's crucial that users can
complete their primary tasks and
those tasks are readily accessible,
because they're the main actions people
want to do on the website, right?
And it's imperative that the smaller
tasks don't get in the way and
stop you doing the top tasks.
It's the old needle in the haystack thing,
you can't find the one
thing you really want to do,
because of all the other clutter.
So that's why we're focusing on top tasks,
but why top level navigation, right?
We're gonna start by looking at the top
level navigation, because there's been
some really interesting research
done around this, right?
If a user gets their first click correct
when they're trying to complete a task,
they've got an 87% chance of
completing the action correctly.
If they get the first click wrong, if they
start off by going in the wrong direction,
that drops to just 46% chance.
So that first click,
in other words the top level
navigation is absolutely critical.
So if we can build our top level
navigation around the main tasks that
somebody wants to complete in your app or
your website,
then the chance of them
successfully complete finding that
top task is gonna be much,
much higher, all right?
So that's all logic.
So how do we build a top level
navigation around top tasks?
Well, we do that with card sorting.